Skip to workspace
Investigation Workspace

What currently explains the observation, and what should be tested next?

Investigation open
Blocked by unknown
Verification outstanding
GitHub write pending
Confirm root cause: unavailable
Observation
Hypotheses
Unknowns
Actions
Contradictions
Obligations
Evidence
Persistence
Triggering observation
Preserved

`indy init` exits with status 1 while scaffolding a new workspace on the CI runner.

error: failed to materialize template "service-basic"
  cause: unexpected end of archive (read 0 of 4096 bytes)
exit status 1
Source
CI job log — pipeline “nightly-scaffold”, runner linux-x64-03
Reported by
Automated nightly check

Preserved verbatim. Later findings annotate this observation; they do not replace it.

Investigation status
Open

Not closed: a corrective action was applied but is not verified. The verification obligation remains outstanding.

Active state facts:

Evidence conflicts with an explanation contradictions-present
Required work is outstanding obligations-present
A hypothesis has been falsified hypothesis-is-falsified
A blocking unknown is open blocking-unknown-exists
GitHub write is pending github-write-is-pending
Corrective action is not verified corrective-action-not-verified
Competing hypotheses

Explanations are listed side by side, not ranked. No numeric confidence is shown because none is supplied.

H1: Template archive is truncated when fetched from the registry mirror

Under consideration — contradicted

Evidence E4 conflicts with this explanation. See Contradictions.

Basis: The error reports an unexpected end of archive while materializing a template.

Evidence: E1 supportsE2 neutralE4 conflicts with

H2: Stale local template cache on the runner serves a partial archive

Under consideration

No falsification is reported in the current state. This is not a confirmation.

Basis: The runner reuses a cache directory between jobs.

Evidence: E1 supports

H3: Runner disk quota is exhausted during extraction

Falsified — retained for the record

Evidence E3 rules this out. It stays listed so the reasoning history is preserved; it is no longer an active candidate.

Basis: Extraction failures can surface as short reads when writes fail.

Evidence: E1 consistent withE3 falsifies

Unresolved unknowns
Blocking

Blocking Which template archive digest did the failing job actually receive?

Without the received digest, no explanation can be confirmed as the root cause: a truncated fetch and a stale cache produce the same log output.

Blocks: Confirm root cause

Open When was the runner template cache last cleared?

Next actions

Availability comes from the application state; this workspace does not override it.

Confirm root cause
Unavailable

Record the explanation that accounts for the observation. Requires an active (not falsified) hypothesis.

Why unavailable:
A blocking unknown is open: Which template archive digest did the failing job actually receive? Go to blocking unknown
A hypothesis has been falsified; confirming a root cause needs an active hypothesis. Go to falsified hypothesis
The corrective action is not yet verified. Go to verification obligation
Required work is outstanding. Go to outstanding obligation
Evidence conflicts with an explanation. Go to contradiction

Contradictions
Present

E4 conflicts with H1: Template archive is truncated when fetched from the registry mirror.

The same archive digest fetched from the mirror by a second runner at the same time extracted successfully.

H1 is weakened, not removed. It remains under consideration until evidence rules it out.

Outstanding obligations
2 open

Verification required Verify the corrective action: re-run the nightly scaffold on a clean runner and confirm `indy init` succeeds.

A corrective action has been applied but has not been verified. The investigation stays open until verification is complete.

Required Outstanding required work must be completed before progress can continue.

The current state reports obligations that are not yet discharged.

Evidence

E1 CI log shows the read stopping at 0 of 4096 bytes during template extraction.

Source: CI job log

Relationship: supports H1supports H2consistent with H3

E2 The registry mirror returned HTTP 200 with a Content-Length for the template archive.

Source: Mirror access log

Relationship: neutral H1

E3 Runner disk usage during the failing job peaked at 18 GB of a 44 GB quota; no write errors were logged.

Source: Runner metrics

Relationship: falsifies H3

E4 The same archive digest fetched from the mirror by a second runner at the same time extracted successfully.

Source: Re-fetch on runner linux-x64-07

Relationship: conflicts with H1

Persistence
This device:
Local working copy
Edits in this workspace exist locally.
GitHub:
Pending
Write to GitHub is pending. It has not been confirmed; do not treat this work as saved remotely.