Skip to workspace
Investigation Workspace

What currently explains the observation, and what should be tested next?

Investigation open
Verification outstanding
GitHub write pending
Confirm root cause: unavailable
Observation
Hypotheses
Unknowns
Actions
Obligations
Evidence
Persistence
Triggering observation
Preserved

`indy init` exits with status 1 while scaffolding a new workspace on the CI runner.

error: failed to materialize template "service-basic"
  cause: unexpected end of archive (read 0 of 4096 bytes)
exit status 1
Source
CI job log — pipeline “nightly-scaffold”, runner linux-x64-03
Reported by
Automated nightly check

Preserved verbatim. Later findings annotate this observation; they do not replace it.

Investigation status
Open

Not closed: a corrective action was applied but is not verified. The verification obligation remains outstanding.

Active state facts:

GitHub write is pending github-write-is-pending
Corrective action is not verified corrective-action-not-verified
Competing hypotheses

Explanations are listed side by side, not ranked. No numeric confidence is shown because none is supplied.

H1: Template archive is truncated when fetched from the registry mirror

Under consideration

No falsification is reported in the current state. This is not a confirmation.

Basis: The error reports an unexpected end of archive while materializing a template.

Evidence: E1 supportsE2 neutral

H2: Stale local template cache on the runner serves a partial archive

Under consideration

No falsification is reported in the current state. This is not a confirmation.

Basis: The runner reuses a cache directory between jobs.

Evidence: E1 supports

H3: Runner disk quota is exhausted during extraction

Under consideration

No falsification is reported in the current state. This is not a confirmation.

Basis: Extraction failures can surface as short reads when writes fail.

Evidence: E1 consistent with

Unresolved unknowns

Open When was the runner template cache last cleared?

Next actions

Availability comes from the application state; this workspace does not override it.

Confirm root cause
Unavailable

Record the explanation that accounts for the observation. Requires an active (not falsified) hypothesis.

Why unavailable:
The corrective action is not yet verified. Go to verification obligation

Outstanding obligations
1 open

Verification required Verify the corrective action: re-run the nightly scaffold on a clean runner and confirm `indy init` succeeds.

A corrective action has been applied but has not been verified. The investigation stays open until verification is complete.

Evidence

E1 CI log shows the read stopping at 0 of 4096 bytes during template extraction.

Source: CI job log

Relationship: supports H1supports H2consistent with H3

E2 The registry mirror returned HTTP 200 with a Content-Length for the template archive.

Source: Mirror access log

Relationship: neutral H1

Persistence
This device:
Local working copy
Edits in this workspace exist locally.
GitHub:
Pending
Write to GitHub is pending. It has not been confirmed; do not treat this work as saved remotely.