Skip to workspace
Investigation Workspace

What currently explains the observation, and what should be tested next?

Investigation open
Confirm root cause: available
Observation
Hypotheses
Unknowns
Actions
Evidence
Persistence
Triggering observation
Preserved

`indy init` exits with status 1 while scaffolding a new workspace on the CI runner.

error: failed to materialize template "service-basic"
  cause: unexpected end of archive (read 0 of 4096 bytes)
exit status 1
Source
CI job log — pipeline “nightly-scaffold”, runner linux-x64-03
Reported by
Automated nightly check

Preserved verbatim. Later findings annotate this observation; they do not replace it.

Investigation status
Open

Active state facts:

A hypothesis has been falsified hypothesis-is-falsified
Competing hypotheses

Explanations are listed side by side, not ranked. No numeric confidence is shown because none is supplied.

H1: Template archive is truncated when fetched from the registry mirror

Under consideration

No falsification is reported in the current state. This is not a confirmation.

Basis: The error reports an unexpected end of archive while materializing a template.

Evidence: E1 supportsE2 neutral

H2: Stale local template cache on the runner serves a partial archive

Under consideration

No falsification is reported in the current state. This is not a confirmation.

Basis: The runner reuses a cache directory between jobs.

Evidence: E1 supports

H3: Runner disk quota is exhausted during extraction

Falsified — retained for the record

Evidence E3 rules this out. It stays listed so the reasoning history is preserved; it is no longer an active candidate.

Basis: Extraction failures can surface as short reads when writes fail.

Evidence: E1 consistent withE3 falsifies

Unresolved unknowns

Open When was the runner template cache last cleared?

Next actions

Availability comes from the application state; this workspace does not override it.

Confirm root cause
Available

Record the explanation that accounts for the observation. Requires an active (not falsified) hypothesis.

Evidence

E1 CI log shows the read stopping at 0 of 4096 bytes during template extraction.

Source: CI job log

Relationship: supports H1supports H2consistent with H3

E2 The registry mirror returned HTTP 200 with a Content-Length for the template archive.

Source: Mirror access log

Relationship: neutral H1

E3 Runner disk usage during the failing job peaked at 18 GB of a 44 GB quota; no write errors were logged.

Source: Runner metrics

Relationship: falsifies H3

Persistence
This device:
Local working copy
Edits in this workspace exist locally.
GitHub:
Not reported
The current state does not report remote persistence. Remote save is not assumed.